applications: nrf_desktop: Add leds documentation (#1100)
NordicPlayground/fw-nrfconnect-nrf: applications/nrf_desktop/doc/leds.rst

.. leds:

leds module
###########

You can control LED diodes with the ``leds`` module, which sets the LED effect in response to a ``led_event``.

Configuration
*************

To use the module, set the following configuration options:

> 

Author: ok

- :option:`CONFIG_PWM`
- :option:`CONFIG_PWM_0`
0 corresponds to the PWM port number. Make sure to configure all PWM ports used by application.

Module is enabled and configured using Kconfig options (details described as help).

To define mapping of the PWM channels to pin numbers, use the ``leds_def.h`` file.

> It is recommended to use symbols defined in the device tree.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use one of the following options:
- Use symbols defined in the device tree for the board (recommended option).
```

> These symbols are defined for board, but application may overlay definining own ``dts.overlay`` file in the application configuration directory dedicated for the board.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use your own ``dts.overlay`` file for the board and place it in the application configuration directory.
```

.. leds:

> leds module

Author: As mentioned above LED effect is defined by LED color and bahaviour. To get requested LED color, you have to set proper brightness levels for R, G and B channels of LED diode (and this is done by PWM with given fill factor).

> leds module

Reviewer: @b-gent , what do you think? To me this can look like sloppy style. Would `Module documentation: leds` or `Module: leds` be better?

> leds module

Reviewer: Skip this for now until we do a complete pre-release review.

###########

> ``leds`` module is responsible for controlling LED diodes (setting LED effect in reaction to ``led_event``).

Author: LED effect is defined by LED color (brightness for: r/g/b channels) and bahaviour (like blinking, breathing etc.)

> ``leds`` module is responsible for controlling LED diodes (setting LED effect in reaction to ``led_event``).

Author: This module is used only to set effects for LED as response to `led_event` (a few other modules will be described as sources of `led_event`)

> ``leds`` module is responsible for controlling LED diodes (setting LED effect in reaction to ``led_event``).

Reviewer: Please mention it in the documentation, not only in the comments.
Also, `led_event` is a proper name or a category?

Configuration
*************

> ``leds`` module is based on Zephyr PWM driver.

Reviewer 2: For setting brightness leds uses PWM driver.

Author: done

> For setting brightness ``leds`` uses PWM driver.

Author: As mentioned above LED effect is defined by LED color and bahaviour. To get requested LED color, you have to set proper brightness levels for R, G and B channels of LED diode (and this is done by PWM with given fill factor).

In order to use the module, following configuration options have to be set:

- :option:`CONFIG_PWM`
- :option:`CONFIG_PWM_0`
  0 denotes PWM port number. All PWM ports used by application should be configured.

> For current implementation :option:`CONFIG_PWM_NRFX` is set and :option:`CONFIG_PWM_NRF5_SW` is unset (in order to use hardware PWM driver).

Author: I meant that in our configurations we use hardware PWM driver (I also explained configuration options that need to be selected/deselected to achieve it).
Without mentioned configuration options, default driver implementation will be used.

> Module is enabled and configured using Kconfig options (details described as help).

Author: Kconfing options may have help defined with them (I didn't want to duplicate it here).

File ``leds_def.h`` is used to define mapping PWM channels to pin numbers.

> Current implementation uses symbols defined in device tree.

Author: Device tree is defined for every board in *.dts file. I will remove word "current".

> These symbols are defined for board, but application may overlay definining own ``dts.overlay`` file).

Reviewer 2: ``dts.overlay`` file in the application configuration directory dedicated for this board.

also remove `)` - it does not match anything

Author: done

> These symbols are defined for board, but application may overlay definining own ``dts.overlay`` file in the application configuration directory dedicated for this board.

Author: If user defines own `dts.overlay` file, he may override symbols defined for given board.

> These symbols are defined for board, but application may overlay definining own ``dts.overlay`` file in the application configuration directory dedicated for this board.

Author: Every board has own default device tree defined (in *.dts file).

> Implementation details

Author: These are details about how module works.

> Implementation details

Reviewer: Update: Keep this section here for now. Rename to `Module details`.

**********************

> Module sets effect for given LED based on ``led_event``.

Author: Ok so this one will be removed

In addition, it turns off all LEDs when going to power down state.
In such case, PWM drivers are also set to suspended state (in order to reduce power consumption).

> While application goes to error state, LEDs are still used to indicate error.

Author: Application may enter error state. Then most of modules are going to sleep (power down state).
LEDs are still in use - we want to indicate error state using chosen effect.

> To achieve selected LED effect, colors for given LED are periodically updated using work (:c:type:`k_delayed_work`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To achieve the selected LED effect, colors for the given LED are periodically updated using work (:c:type:`k_delayed_work`).
```
What is this `work`? Also, you mention `selected LED effect` -- where do I select it?

Author: selected with recent `led_event` for given LED. Work is reference to Zephyr work (k_delayed_work for leds module)

One work updates color of single LED.

> :c:type:`led_effect` contains pointer to array of :c:type:`led_effect_step`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:c:type:`led_effect` contains a pointer to the :c:type:`led_effect_step` array.
```

> During every update, next LED color is calculated using linear approximation between current LED color and color described in next step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During every update, the next LED color is calculated using a linear approximation between the current LED color and the color described in next step.
```
`described` by what?

Author: Actually color is described by 3 numbers representing R,G,B. For monochromatic LED you get only one number representing brightness.

> Number of substeps and substep time for mentioned approximation are defined as :cpp:member:`substep_count` and :cpp:member:`substep_time`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The number of substeps and the substep duration for the approximation are defined as :cpp:member:`substep_count` and :cpp:member:`substep_time`.
```
What is the `substep duration/time`? You don't mention it earlier.

Author: Parameters when making linear approximation for colors between defined steps.

> After achieving given color, index of next step is updated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After displaying the given color, the index of the next step is updated.
```
Updated by what? Automatically? As part of a function?

Author: Yes, it is done automatically.

Reviewer: Please mention it in the documentation.

> After last step, if :cpp:member:`loop_forever` is set to ``true``, next step is first one in array pointed by cpp:member:`steps` (otherwise sequence ends).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the last step, if :cpp:member:`loop_forever` is set to ``true``, the next step is the first one in the array pointed by cpp:member:`steps` (otherwise sequence ends).
```
It would be great to have an MSC illustrating the whole sequence.

Author: Ok

+------------------+-------------+----------------+-----------------+-------------+

Configuration
*************

The module uses Zephyr PWM driver for setting LED color (brightness).
To use the module, set the following configuration options:
- :option:`CONFIG_PWM`
- :option:`CONFIG_PWM_0`

In :option:`CONFIG_PWM_0`, 0 corresponds to the PWM port number. Make sure to configure all PWM ports used by application.

Module is enabled using :option:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_LED_ENABLE`.

Additional configuration options may be used to configure:
* number of LEDs is use (:option:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_LED_COUNT`),
* number of color channels per diode (:option:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_LED_COLOR_COUNT`),
* maximum value of LED brightness (:option:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_LED_BRIGHTNESS_MAX`).

Symbols from :ref:`zephyr:_device-tree` are used to define mapping of the PWM channels to pin numbers.
By default the symbols are defined in board configuration, but you can redefine them in ``dts.overlay`` file.
Configuration for the board is written in the ``leds_def.h`` file.
Both mentioned files are located in the board specific directory in application configuration folder.

Implementation details
**********************

> LED color is achieved by setting proper pulse widths for PWM signals.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The LED color is achieved by setting the proper pulse widths for the PWM signals.
```

> To achieve the set LED effect, colors for the given LED are periodically updated using work (:c:type:`k_delayed_work`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To achieve the desired LED effect, colors for the given LED are periodically updated using work (:c:type:`k_delayed_work`).
```

> One work automatically updates color of single LED.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One work automatically updates the color of a single LED.
```

> This module turns off all LEDs when application goes to the power down state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This module turns off all LEDs when the application goes to the power down state.
```

In such case, the PWM drivers are set to the suspended state to reduce the power consumption.

> While the application goes to error state, LEDs are used to indicate error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the application goes to the error state, the LEDs are used to indicate error.
```
How? Clarify in the doc what the behavior of the LEDs in the error state is...

Author: This is be defined in `led_state_def.h` (per board). I wanted to keep description of effects set to LEDs in `led_state` docs.
